Update for 24 2 (#5)
DevExpress-Examples/blazor-grid-drag-and-drop: README.md

<!-- default badges list -->
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Open_in_DevExpress_Support_Center-FF7200?style=flat-square&logo=DevExpress&logoColor=white)](https://supportcenter.devexpress.com/ticket/details/T1109419)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/📖_How_to_use_DevExpress_Examples-e9f6fc?style=flat-square)](https://docs.devexpress.com/GeneralInformation/403183)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/💬_Leave_Feedback-feecdd?style=flat-square)](#does-this-example-address-your-development-requirementsobjectives)
<!-- default badges end -->

# Blazor Grid - Incorporate Drag and Drop Support

The DevExpress Blazor Grid supports drag and drop operations.

![Drag between two grids](result.png)

Use the following API members to activate this feature for your Grids:

> - [AllowDragRows](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.AllowDragRows) - Specifies whether users can start the row drag operation.

Reviewer: I would avoid articles before "row drag and drop". If you use "the", it might seem like you are talking about a specific operation - a specific person started dragging a specific row. Then it's "the operation". But we want to talk about operations in general. Anybody can drag any row. 

```suggestion
- [AllowDragRows](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.AllowDragRows) - Specifies whether users can start row drag-and-drop operations.
```

> - [AllowedDropTarget](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.AllowedDropTarget) - Specifies allowed drag and drop targets.

Reviewer: "drag-and-drop" serves as an adjective that modifies "targets", so I want it to look like a single word. 

```suggestion
- [AllowedDropTarget](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.AllowedDropTarget) - Specifies allowed drag-and-drop targets.
```

When a user drops rows, the [ItemsDropped](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.ItemsDropped) event fires. In its handler, update the data source: insert rows at the drop position and remove them from the initial position, if required.

## Reorder Rows in a Grid

> If you want to active the reorder capability, set the [AllowDragRows](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.AllowDragRows) property to `true`. You can test this usage scenario on the **Reorder** page.

Reviewer: I prefer not to use phrases like "the ABC feature/capability". Microsoft never does this in their documentation. They never say they support "the conditional formatting feature". They usually just say "to display X, do Y". 

```suggestion
If you want to let users reorder rows, set the [AllowDragRows](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.AllowDragRows) property to `true`. You can test this usage scenario on the **Reorder** page.
```

## Drag Rows Between Components

> To activate row dragging between components, do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To let users drag rows between components, do the following:
```

- Set the [AllowDragRows](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.AllowDragRows) property to `true`.

> - Set the [AllowedDropTarget](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.AllowedDropTarget) to `External`. You can use the `All` option if you want to also allow reordering.

Reviewer: Since you just said `External` without any modifiers, it makes sense to me to do the same with `All`. 

```suggestion
- Set the [AllowedDropTarget](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.AllowedDropTarget) to `External`. You can use `All` if you also want to allow row reordering.
```

> The [DropTargetMode](https://docs.devexpress.devx/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.DropTargetMode) property specifies whether the drop position is defined by [TargetItem](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.GridItemsDroppedEventArgs.TargetItem) and [DropPosition](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.GridItemsDroppedEventArgs.DropPosition) properties. Otherwise, the target indicator highlights the entire data area. You need to implement custom insertion logic (for example, if your data is sorted or grouped) in the [ItemsDropped](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.ItemsDropped) event handler. 

Reviewer: Let's switch this to a list.

```suggestion
The [DropTargetMode](https://docs.devexpress.devx/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.DropTargetMode) property specifies drop position indication style: 

- The entire data area.
- A specific location defined by the [TargetItem](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.GridItemsDroppedEventArgs.TargetItem) and [DropPosition](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.GridItemsDroppedEventArgs.DropPosition) properties. You need to implement a custom insertion logic (for example, if your data is sorted or grouped) in the [ItemsDropped](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.ItemsDropped) event handler. 
```

Author: ```suggestion
The [DropTargetMode](https://docs.devexpress.devx/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.DropTargetMode) property specifies drop position indication style: 

- A specific location defined by the [TargetItem](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.GridItemsDroppedEventArgs.TargetItem) and [DropPosition](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.GridItemsDroppedEventArgs.DropPosition) properties.
- The entire data area. You need to implement a custom insertion logic (for example, if your data is sorted or grouped) in the [ItemsDropped](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.ItemsDropped) event handler. 
```

<!-- default badges list -->
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Open_in_DevExpress_Support_Center-FF7200?style=flat-square&logo=DevExpress&logoColor=white)](https://supportcenter.devexpress.com/ticket/details/T1109419)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/📖_How_to_use_DevExpress_Examples-e9f6fc?style=flat-square)](https://docs.devexpress.com/GeneralInformation/403183)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/💬_Leave_Feedback-feecdd?style=flat-square)](#does-this-example-address-your-development-requirementsobjectives)
<!-- default badges end -->

# Blazor Grid - Incorporate Drag and Drop Support

> The DevExpress Blazor Grid supports drag and drop operations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The DevExpress Blazor Grid supports drag-and-drop operations.
```

## Reorder Rows in a Grid

If you want to let users reorder rows, set the [AllowDragRows](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.AllowDragRows) property to `true`. You can test this usage scenario on the **Reorder** page.

## Drag Rows Between Components

To let users drag rows between components, do the following:

- Set the [AllowDragRows](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.AllowDragRows) property to `true`.
- Set the [AllowedDropTarget](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.AllowedDropTarget) to `External`. You can use `All` if you also want to allow row reordering.

The [DropTargetMode](https://docs.devexpress.devx/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.DropTargetMode) property specifies drop position indication style: 

- A specific location defined by the [TargetItem](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.GridItemsDroppedEventArgs.TargetItem) and [DropPosition](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.GridItemsDroppedEventArgs.DropPosition) properties.

> - The entire data area. You need to implement a custom insertion logic (for example, if your data is sorted or grouped) in the [ItemsDropped](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.ItemsDropped) event handler. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The entire data area. You need to implement custom insertion logic (for example, if your data is sorted or grouped) in the [ItemsDropped](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.ItemsDropped) event handler. 
```
